# Plugins

Rodeo has been designed to allow users to utilize custom plugins to manipulate, transform, and enrich their data as it is processed into node and relationships. A plugin has an opportunity to "hook" three parts of the processing pipeline.

## 1. Document Hook

The first hook is just before each row or instance of data (refered to as a document) is processed into Nodes. At this phase, every part of the document can be effected. Both document keys and values can be added, removed, or modified.

## 2. Node Hook

The second opportunity to hook the pipeline is just after the Nodes have been generated for the current document. At this point you will have the opportunity to edit each of the nodes that have been generated including their attributes and labels. Additionally, you can add or remove nodes from the generated list.

## 3. Relationship Hook

The final hook in the pipeline is after the relationships have been generated. Just like the last hook, you will receive a list of the relationships generated by the current document. Each relationship can then have its attributes and Nodes added, removed, or modified.

## Developing a Plugin

You can develop your own Rodeo plugin using Java by importing the `org.venatorlabs.rodeo.plugin` package and writing your own class that `extends` the `RodeoPlugin` class. Additionally, you will need need to import the `org.venatorlabs.rodeo.graph` package to get access to the `Node` and `Relationship` classes. These packages are located in the `rodeo-plugin.jar` and the `rodeo-common.jar` currently included in the distribution `extras` directory. A more detailed tutorial will be available at a later time.